docs: Add systemd journal example to Promtail migration guide (#6108)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/set-up/migrate/from-promtail.md

}
```

### Convert a systemd journal scrape configuration

Promtail deployments scraping the systemd journal are a common pattern for Linux host log collection.

> The following Promtail configuration is typical for servers, containers, and VMs using `systemd-journald`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Promtail is a common way to collect Linux host logs from the systemd journal.
The following typical Promtail configuration for servers, containers, and VMs that run `systemd-journald`:
```

Some small re-phrasing to be a bit more active and remove gerunds.

```yaml
server:
  http_listen_port: 9080
  grpc_listen_port: 0
positions:
  filename: /tmp/positions.yaml
clients:
  - url: http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: systemd-journal
    journal:
      max_age: 12h
      labels:
        job: systemd-journal
        host: my-hostname
    relabel_configs:
      - source_labels: ['__journal__systemd_unit']
        target_label: unit
```

> The equivalent {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration uses the [`loki.source.journal`][loki.source.journal] component paired with [`loki.relabel`][loki.relabel] for the `__journal__systemd_unit` → `unit` mapping:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The equivalent {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration uses [`loki.source.journal`][loki.source.journal] and [`loki.relabel`][loki.relabel] together so you can reproduce the label behavior from the `relabel_configs` section in the Promtail example above.
[`loki.source.journal`][loki.source.journal] reads the systemd journal and surfaces internal metadata on each line, including the `__journal__systemd_unit` field.
[`loki.relabel`][loki.relabel] holds the rule that writes that value to the `unit` label.
The journal component must reference the relabel block: set its `relabel_rules` argument to the `rules` value exported from [`loki.relabel`][loki.relabel] so that rule runs on journal lines before they reach `forward_to`.
```

Could we expand this a little to explain a little more detail about what's happening? There was some assumptions in the original text and if someone isn't really familiar with the process, they might need just slightly more info.

Thoughts?

Author: Thanks for the rewrite — this reads much better. Spelling out that `relabel_rules` consumes the `rules` value exported by `loki.relabel` is exactly the bit that tripped me up when I did the conversion by hand, so making it explicit should help anyone doing the same. Happy to keep your wording as-is.

```alloy
loki.relabel "journal" {
  forward_to = []

  rule {
    source_labels = ["__journal__systemd_unit"]
    target_label  = "unit"
  }
}

loki.source.journal "read" {
  max_age       = "12h"
  relabel_rules = loki.relabel.journal.rules
  forward_to    = [loki.write.default.receiver]
  labels        = {
    job  = "systemd-journal",
    host = "my-hostname",
  }
}

loki.write "default" {
  endpoint {
    url = "http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push"
  }
}
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> Make sure the `alloy` user is a member of the `adm` and `systemd-journal` groups so that it can read the journal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the `alloy` user is a member of the `adm` and `systemd-journal` groups so it can read the journal.
```
